hello welcome to GUI and in web browsers
we click all its 28th of August 2018 and
and we at the usual time if you are not
on the list of participants at yourself
if you have a topic that you want to
discuss a little agenda
I added some items I see other people
added some items so maybe we'll just
jump right into that Irish on screen
we had some off of the record discussion
about this call and we will be trying to
make keep it shorter maybe 45 minutes
next time or this time we'll see how it
goes
first item on the agenda is yeah I
created a draft of co-hosting spec so
for people who were not watching last
week the idea is to create a simple
specification for hosting websites using
NFS and the idea is to use like a
compassion of directories on top of em
FS for managing snapshots of specific
websites and the goal of this spec is to
use only files API so effectively files
API should be the only thing you need to
use to support this or to manage this
and the idea is to move away from
low-level pinning
when it comes to like co-hosting
websites we had like some discussion
they took asked some good questions
around use cases and I try to
the speck through that lens and
commented which things are possible in
the scope proposed in this PR and which
are not but could be supported either by
writing custom code in user land in your
app or tweaking the spec a little bit so
that's wall of text let's plate did you
find that was that a useful exercise to
push the spec through the lens of things
people want to do yeah yes especially
especially a important part for me was
identifying this distinction between
people who want to save a copy of a
single website and people who want to
lick co-hosts entire website right so
some people care about just one part of
website just just this page and other
people want to keep the entire
example.com or entire Wikipedia online
yeah so that's I believe that's a good
the main question when it comes to to
this version of this bag is where how do
we scope it so what will be included in
this and which things we decide to just
drop to keep the spec small the problem
is that a lot like effectively if you
see everything is possible right but we
we need to decide where at which point
we say okay enough and like personally
I'm biased towards like minimalism and
like keeping the spec as small as
possible just like just a few
directories like three files commands
for adding getting and simple algorithm
for like updating and that's it and just
just for websites I'm I like I noted
here that we could support specifically
like single pages like single paths but
that gets hairy
very very fast websites can have sub
resources from different paths so we
either like just host a partial the
power part of the website or or even at
the single page or do we go to a
business of like rewriting HTML and then
if we start rewriting stuff then we lose
the debt duplication so you see there's
a rabbit quickly it's a just a rabbit
hole which I personally I would like to
not go there and just keep it around
websites
yeah that sounds well first thanks for
going through and do that scoping
because that's so helped me to
understand what the spec enables kind of
out of the box versus tweaks and I think
you're right like this really clarifies
what the technology they already have in
hand enables easily versus having to do
a whole bunch of other higher-level
application stuff then I agree then
narrower narrow and clearer in the
capability of the spec is there's gonna
be the way that to move quickly in and
iterate on something that is useful in
people and something I realized
something yeah I did so only created
common line tools
exactly for that which I added to the
spec in a sneaky way however the idea
the way this tool works right now it's
just like a command line let me like
make it bigger so it's just like a
come-on line told you just pass webs
like host names of your website and it
takes care of fetching it and pinning it
but it's pinning it using this low-level
ipfs pin command which just takes a
Content identifier and pins it but you
are not able to assign like a label you
are not able you need to remember that
oh this CID is for this website and you
need to like manually manage this so
that the idea basically is with this
pack is to upgrade
at some point tools like EFS co-host -
to make it easier for people to know
what they are co-hosting and make it
easier for people to people to like
decide they want to drop the older
snapshots or maybe they want to just
stop sharing this website costs like -
takes too much space or they don't care
about this anymore I believe like that
would be beneficial because the toll
would work the same but then we you just
go to web UI to the files and you see a
hosting directory and it's likes it's
basically like self describing feature
you don't really need to even know that
that thing exists you go to hosting of
there's this domain I know and there is
there are snapshots yeah
the most important thing for me is that
the spec mapped to the the entirety of
the user flow so as the user I want to
save something offline do my ipfs local
soar I want to be able to share that
with other people and I want to be able
to go back and read the thing that I
save and as long as it so that this
could have like there's this whole that
core set of things that people want to
do and as long as the spec meets that
core basic set of things that people
want to do with website then not like
checking all those boxes I think is the
key and that's how we don't end up in
the situation where we are now where
there are certain sets of things that
you can do sometimes with some things
yeah I believe like what needs to be
done to this like the post spec wreck
right now it's like a very technical
mostly like oriented if you want to
implement this right but I believe we
should add like a section of use cases
maybe not I'm not sure it should be spec
or maybe in with me but basically take
this list and decide which we include in
spec which we don't and and just
write it down what this spec enables and
which watch what is not in the scope of
this spec and just write write it down
I'll probably do that and then we'll
make a final pass on this it does not
seem to be very controversial I'm
interested in the pattern of like we
kind of in the well-known directories
zone mm-hmm and we've talked about it in
the past bill it's one of those things
that I like it's got some real simple
user experience qualities about it like
it's very easy to explain to users but
it feels also like very fragile or at
least like it's a mutable file system
anyone can call there's there's no good
act there's no control on this and
there's no guarantee that what you find
in the coast and directory is in the
format that you expect and this may be
the right way to go but it's just like
an interesting like first example of
like trying up trying to make a formal
proposal to make that a thing and every
time we talk about it with everyone like
no one's spent enough time thinking
about the trade-offs of using the
well-known directory pattern certainly
amongst us no one's got really strong
everyone's like feels a bit floppy but
it is kind of easy to explain I merely
offer this up as like background to the
conversation I don't want to I wanted to
rail it because of it but it it's
learned I totally agree and sort of been
thinking on this on my own namely I know
it's like going into like Bagshot area
but we need to go there at some point
like this proposal of like putting
directory in the root it's like just
like a placeholder cause like it's nice
it's in the road and people immediately
see this however we could have like
actually like that well-known directory
under which we would put stuff
like that and then we would we could
present that directory differently in
web UI that's a question like how much
we want to invent new things right now
we just add a directory to em FS I
believe if we decide to not put it
directly on the road but in like that
config or that well-known director as a
subdirectory of well-known directory
that could be still acceptable but
anything like more than that it's it's
probably diminishing returns and likely
introducing multiple layers of
directories for people to click through
there which is like my fear yeah yeah in
its kind of purist form it feels a bit
like the movement of convention over
configuration like it's really clear
everyone knows it
just like the coalition directory that's
where websites go which may be a strong
reason to at least like run with this
spec see how it will see how it's a what
people feel about it and and then it
maybe gives more value to their whole
NFS abstraction or people hate it and we
know that we should like use IP LD for
this sort of thing in the future but I
guess without actually like using it in
anger for a thing like this we don't
we'll be sort of having the conversation
about it how do we feel about it forever
I recommend in the spec talking about
the well-known directory pattern and
acknowledging that it's a vector for
experimentation and for playing with
ideas like this in really agile ways
without requiring protocol changes like
I think if you kind of call that out at
the beginning like we know there's this
architectural e fragile bit here we are
taking advantage of the fragility in
order to get to be able to experiment
easily and quickly
yep and I also believe it could be
interesting to turn this like and
anxiety around like just adding
directories to EMFs it's like a forcing
function to think how could we improve
em FS it's sort of like my pet project
to pet project or a pet idea to turn em
FS which is like a ridiculous name and
now everyone is using it for some reason
people to to move from this like very
proprietary name to the better
abstraction like a drive and you can
have multiple drives so for now we could
just we just put this co-hosting
directory into the one and FS because we
have just one m FS but maybe in the
future
each co-hosted website could be on its
own Drive which has a separate access
controls things like that so like the
fact that we don't have those things
right now and we put a it on em FS could
surface the need for implementing or at
least discussing those things so I feel
it's is probably like not a super
priority but will slowly should iterate
on this because it may open interesting
discussions at some point well should we
head to the next agenda and you're gonna
bring in a bunch yeah we got a bunch of
all right I prefers provider veto that
this one is mine it will be probably
fast activist provider is library
JavaScript library that aims to make it
easier for people to add ipfs as I said
like a back-end service or like a
background service of the web app
without worrying too much about where
that actual ipfs demon come from so
lot of apps would just want to add some
data to ipfs and get cid and vice versa
so a cubist provider it's a way of
introducing a very elegant heuristic
when you try to connect to users god i i
q-- fast no training on their own
machine be that if user has ipfs
companion or has go ipfs running on
localhost IP in a way that will work for
people who have not installed those
things so you may try a key first IP api
provided by IP first companion if
there's none then you try some HTTP api
but if that api is down then you fall
back to embed the JSA PFS which still
lets you access data on ipfs that's
that's the that's the dream we have the
current version is like a port of all
tool we used internally however the
issue I linked and added to the agenda
is a discussion about and programmatic
interface which would be very clear to
understand and very easy to customize
both which providers we want to enable
and in which order so here we see I
first want to try some HTTP API then I
want to fall back to interface provided
by browser extension and if neither of
those work I want to fall back to
embedded J's ipfs with some custom
configuration and and this is like an
issue where we discuss how this future
interface could look like but basically
what we want for people is to just call
this get ipfs and they should get
working ipfs api instance that they can
interact with that's more or less it and
the questions to this one oh yeah is
that
I guess you know I mean there's probably
a lot of reasons why you would want to
choose be specific about those fall
backs and not just have a kind of like
deterministic barbacks based on a set of
things I deal in settings to the time it
might be good to enumerate what the
reasons are why people would want to do
this in in the readme for this yeah
totally the the background on this is
Internet Archive it would be one of you
of users and the way they want to this
to work is they probably they are
running their own notes
I believe so they wanted to try API
first and then fall back to and by the
J's ipfs or vice versa I never remember
but I know it was like very unusual and
in the old library it was not possible
similarly window ipfs is interface
experimental interface provided by
browser extension but some people want
it comes with limitations it comes with
like sandbox for filesystem API so some
application which need access to like
regular full files API might decide to
just disable this provider because it
does not provide the full likely first
experience so don't select to from the
top of my head but you know I actually
just added the description of those so
the people looking at it understand if
they need it
or why they would need it yeah yeah I I
believe like we we should like list
examples of scenarios with like those
code samples that show they are there
with some custom configuration that's a
good illustration why would someone
would want start
next one yeah I see I've added like I
should randomize those so I'm not
talking all the time but the another one
is I created today it's about missing
dogs on setting up on bootstrap node
with WebSockets over TLS which I was
sort of surprised
the problem is that actually we have
like regular dogs in go we have regular
dogs about configuration in Jessica
fares and if you read all those dogs you
may connect to dots and figure out how
to set it up but effectively a lot of
people would like to run their own ipfs
note on the backends be that JSF EFS or
go ipfs and have that backend service
exposed WebSocket endpoint for the thin
for the J's ipfs running in the website
to use it as a bootstrap node so the
idea is that like right now if you run
J's ipfs it will if you run just a DFS
with default configuration it will spawn
and try to connect to a list of default
bootstrap nodes which are provided by a
pipe EFS project and the p2p project the
problem is it's like a list of eight
servers which which we always try when
we try to reach out to to the swarm and
if you are building a web app with ipfs
you probably want to at least add the
some additional bootstrap nodes to
ensure that your application remains
functional and is able to connect to the
swarm even if the public default boot
shot nodes are down another reason why
you want to use custom bootstrap nodes
is our limitations of JC DFS in the
browser context so you when you are in
the running just like your face in web
browser right now you don't have DHT you
may
do the HD queries using delegated
routing and you may print out some
content you want using period nodes so
that this is where your custom bootstrap
node comes in because if you add your
goai TFS or J's ipfs as a bootstrap note
to your J's API FS running on your
website the same node can act as preload
and delegated Rooter which improve
content discovery and in general if you
want to set up like a play a video
player or you have a data set that you
know your embedded J's API FS we want to
access ensuring it's already connected
to a node with that data improves that
content discovery speed so that's not
very long provides why this matters case
matters and the problem is we we are
missing a good like one-stop tutorial
for setting this up because there's a K
dot the caveat is that WebSocket
transport is supported by go ahead of us
but it's disabled by default and it's
disabled by default because by default
it's not encrypted it's just WebSockets
without any encryption on top of it and
most of deployments will run on 8-hd PS
which means JSI PFS won't be able to
connect to unencrypted web socket if you
want to use JSI DFS on a website on HTTP
you need your web socket port to be also
wrapped in TLS and that's what the
problem that's the problem
it's not easy cuz go FS does not support
HTTP does not support like WebSocket
over TLS so we need to put nginx
or other reverse proxy in front of go
ideas
and setup certificates there and sure
WebSockets are wrapped in TLS and all
and then like multi others for this
endpoint will be different like
unencrypted is /ws encrypted is /w s s
stuff like that so I believe that's a
big hole in our documentation that we
don't have like one stop for that a lot
of people would love to run their own
but right now it's really really tricky
I was looking at the ways we could
anything we could link or anything I
could like him extract into like quick
tutorial and I was not able to so for
now I just ask anyone excited about this
or who already said this up on their own
to either comment on this issue or post
like if there are tutorials out there
just post them but I believe I was not
able to find anything like ad hoc so I
believe we should create one and in
Jessica first repo there's like a dog's
directory which is bit lonely right now
it's just like dog about conflict but I
believe like we should hand it here like
how to run your own bootstrap node or
how to use your own bootstrappers
something like that yeah it might be
cool to be able to put it just a whole
bunch of skeletons of talks in there
talks we wish we had yeah yeah like I
believe like a lot of people in
community already did that the problem
is that you dug you did that at you and
you just moved on and other people have
the same problem so I was really
surprised we did not recommend this it's
something I want to improve and that's
it I promise to shut up shut up now and
the next agenda item is me and around
issue that posted about his unit test
and my exclusion
axes you get I haven't looked at the
issue in a couple of days did you get
the feedback you needed there in order
to move forward on unit test design I
think yes has problems with his internal
connection today yeah I can hear but I
can see anyone just ray screams the gray
boxes so yeah this was just a question
about that if you got what you needed
for the unit test design to go ahead
before you go down the road of creating
thousands of mocks um I merged the PR
but I still have a question about them
see what you think about it like some of
the modules I'm testing require other
modules from the
[Music]
it's a good practice I searched online
some people say this some people say it
isn't so I I'm not sure if it's a good
idea to use it but do you have an idea
of kind of like what the what the upper
bounds would be of what do you mean like
is if you have to import all this stuff
and write all this it's marks layer idea
an idea
I guess there is a set list or won't
only keep growing
yeah I believe it will keep growing if I
make unit tests for every everything
every file we have on
so I guess a little opal the - yep you
and you in robotic at the end there but
I guess you have from from if we if
these are areas of tests that we are
finding bugs in then maybe is worth
doing that investments but if it's not
then at the time
I mean maybe would be if we are if we
don't have integration like enter and
integration test that would catch
something like the smoke test that would
catch the same issue then maybe it would
be better to spend the time in that but
if the unit tests are an area that we
are regularly funny get issues that they
were these tests would catch like
looking back at some of the bugs that
we've discovered or shipped or found if
he if he unit testing like they would
catch those then and it seems like a
thing worth doing like the the same main
I mean now probably wouldn't have but
most of the bugs we we've had in the
past are like really stupid things just
like a myth
me in this time like I misspoke ins
something like that word in the code so
I believe it will work we have a son and
twin tests but they're only test launch
process I like to test more of the web
UI integration although I haven't had
time to check that out and also and it
is relatable to the next max point in
the agenda there are a lot of issues
with the build process
you
would the unit-tests catch some of these
bill process issues is that how are they
related or are they related in a
different way
you
yep we lost him
hello hey yeah we can you know so I
don't know what you heard
so I'm going through it what I was
saying I'm just concerned about the size
of the box folder directory because it
seems that if I continue to make unit
tests for all of the code of IPs desktop
I don't need to mark almost all external
packages will require and a lot of
internal modules of a business desktop
and I didn't know if that was a good
practice yeah that I mean that's that's
always the the risk with mocking right
is like you will have an infinite list
of things that need to be mocked in in
the system changes and you have to
rebuild the end up doing this this non
non trivial slice of work is permanently
managing the mocks at that point so I
think what right before you cut out you
were talking about how this is related
to kind of the build issues that you're
talking about below in the next item and
so I think you know you're the best
person to kind of make no decision as to
whether or not the work doing unit tests
and mocking will solve or catch the type
of issues that come up first but it
sounds like the the build issues are
probably a higher priority okay do you
want to skip down to that item boo-boos
yeah sure
I would shut my screen I'm Internet is
not evil people was doing that so I
asked you to open the shoe please I have
a link yeah me notes so the first
problem is touching web UI like right
now when we type NPM install we fetch
the web UI from ipfs that I owe the
problem is that the latest web UI
version is not pin to the Gateway
but it's into the
in normal synchronous sentence it would
work but right now the gate we can is
having some connection problems it's
Saturday so the builds are all failing
on all CI is because of timeouts and
there are two switch things I was told
we're all about them he suggested to
make whether you either like yesterday
all the way through his version and like
if I stay up late this coming so they
would both get into the Gateway and the
other option would be to add a module to
act as a repository so good build but do
i underlined point updating nobody why
we wouldn't do it either comment on the
repository instead of the single edge
why do you think about that point would
reach solution seems better just a
sub-module solution make it easier for
doing local testing as well or does it
not matter
alright there's only four CI it's so
also for like we don't use a web UI for
the for testing it's only to add to the
final binary to it show up this way so
it couldn't matter much but on say it's
I believe into the burn to the traffic
get sub module because right now quickly
get is a bit part reliable then target
so it wouldn't be an issue but if we had
the latest web you wipe into the gateway
the way the way this release version and
not the way this commits it would also
solve the problems although it would
still be will be I don't know a little
more unreliable you say yeah perhaps
yeah we could try a
and see if it works I prefer the first
solution the second one would need with
requires to update the specific commit
of the module which would make a bit it
wouldn't be a big problem
right now we when we realize the new
version of Yui we just met ash and the
player on JSF you face go a bit faster
and and bestop who they have a different
the painting process we would need some
module see it seems like the solution is
a little easier to do and requires a
little less manual intervention yeah
just let's move for the second topic
election builder is counting on Linux
releases on Travis so custom builder
seem stupid but this version that makes
it feel on Travis cinder opened an issue
under the repo 20 days ago they said
nothing the report didn't reply it have
no activity on the repository since 18
days ago or something I could downgrade
the livestream builder version but that
would require me to downgrade election
version which would also require me to
change make something and reversing
changes of the code and I don't know no
this is only happening on Travis I by
typing a by running this one with
machine it works so I believe it's a
Travis specific problem and it would
work on other Sierra like circle and I
totally - on Monday about this and he
suggested me to try circles in sustain
our support Windows and Mac well I think
that's a good idea
but I'm not sure if the price of circle
see I would be worth it because circle
needs a paid plan for Mac OS and windows
and I don't know if it'd be it costs
like are we already using circle in
other places yeah yeah but you are
[Music]
general like file colonies using that
for everything I think so okay
interesting should be able to help or at
least like answer questions about it how
easy is that to try out like for should
we just get you as a circle accounts
through infra and then you can see if it
fixes the problem or is it something
where they would take a pretty big
amount of migration to be able to see if
in fixing us in common I have already
created a creative edge a wrench to try
out circle it's not working yet but
that's my fault
but it's only testing on Linux okay it's
not actually my fault it's gateways
fault because you can't download what UI
and service fail so I can really test
the tests and the build process but this
is only for Linux I I need to be able to
run this on Windows in my quest to to
make sure it will work closely I mean it
seems like having our CI on on one
system makes sense would be good but I I
have no idea how many other repos are
using Travis or circle other things yeah
like
Travis also has support now but they
have some issues this is a funny thing
adware almost never fails the modem from
the Gateway and Travis does which is
weird and it is weird I mean it kind of
reflects the pattern we're seeing of
Gateway failure it's generally the where
it looks fine for a but not for B so I
believe now I we need to fix like the
fetching WI part and then I can try
circle scale with me a more reliable
solution for fetching the VI I believe
that's the way to go just an idea around
like downloading things that we need
from our gateway yeah so I believe we
had this issue in other places and
generally like the problem is with any
cast which just pins you to a specific
instance of our gateway we have like
multiple instances in different parts of
the world and that's why same thing
works for one person but does not work
for Travis because it's using like
effectively a different machine which
might not have the same data in the
cache and stuff like that but for you
specific use on our CI is that we
actually know have and we have like
direct aliases for each geographical
instance of our gateway so I'm not sure
if it's a pattern on an anti-pattern but
it's a pattern to just try them in order
and basically like sidestep the Anna
cast so instead of being routed to that
one specific instance of our gateway I'm
I wonder if it would be benefit
solving this problem to just try okay
the u.s. one does not work let's fall
back to the one in Frankfurt I you may
ask only about like details how to
request specific like request data
through our gateway from a specific like
geographical instance I'm not sure if it
will help but maybe it feels like
something worth looking at before we go
into the rabbit hole of moving to a
different CI infrastructure or things
like that maybe that will be enough yeah
then we'll solve you Aisha but not the
election builder if you like to move
beliefs to filling on traffic we
couldn't do this anyway that's change
yeah I don't know domain maintainer and
haven't replied it and it's been twenty
days perhaps they're on vacation don't
know I feel it may be useful to see how
much time it would take to go to the
circus er if you feel it like it's
eating too much of your time we can like
revisit it before you like investing too
much time - democrazy we've been like
switching from Jenkins to Travis from
Travis Circle actually a better setup
has been really stable we've always been
using Travis that man like you the
problem is only by right now fetching wi
after solving that we still have the
lights from the other problem like
there's a show about not not being able
to start
if it says desktop on Linux and the
betta releases and it's my fault because
I built the binaries on a virtual
machine and the podium because it wasn't
working on Travis and they I should have
said likes different some weird option
for sandboxing on Linux that I didn't
know about and this is not a good way to
make for this is definitely also on
Linux it's not all distribution
distribution twerkin or distributions or
all the soft environments and look
that's what they're called yes I
backgrounds on that is that some desktop
environments have like a tray section
when you put can put like tray icons
however the newest norm environment
which is unlike unity in in Ubuntu or
maybe non-free either way some of the
latest ones just removed that tray
section and that's the problem because
when we start IP first desktop the user
interface was just just that one icon in
the tray and now when there's no tray we
are not able to open anything I believe
that's one of the problems were there
now like paranoid should do not invest
in winning support with like running in
the readme saying it's experimental I
think like we already have a warning
it's just a matter of someone spending
time in like Ubuntu and finding out the
way of providing alternative user
interface for like opening the main menu
because right now the menu
is opened through like the tray area and
in some desktop environments on Linux
there's no tray area or you need to
enable it and most of people don't have
it so they install a Kieffer's desktop
they click on the icon and nothing
happens I might if I stop starts in runs
in the background but they have no user
interface to open it so if someone is
listening and he's using like Ubuntu
with this type of user interface it
would be useful to at least figure out
how to provide alternative user
interface I looked at some
electron-electron builder configuration
options and it does not seem to be
supported yet so that's like an open
question for now I would just if we
don't have this message that it's
experimental
I would add it if it's there I would
increase the font size to it yeah and I
generally like maybe other note that we
would we are like looking for Linux
maintainer or something like that
because that effectively it's
problematic it is much easier to support
Mac and Windows because those are just
two desktop environments on Linux you
have like multiple so yeah I believe we
have with lost deitrick had to go to a
different meeting so I'll just quickly
open open the last item on on the agenda
and we've wrapped up there's an open
question should we exclude gateway paths
from being crawled by machines so things
like Googlebot which is indexing the
Internet and creating Google search
index
there's a way of excluding specific
paths on your website I open them pyaare
just to start this discussion should we
like exclude gateway paths from being
crawled and an argument for that is
those results are already dropped from
the Google search I believe they those
were sort of spanning search results
because anti Wikipedia got indexed so
you know that were real typed there was
a page on ipfs which shown on the
federal verse the first page and it was
just a mirror of Wikipedia which was
kind of duplicated duplicating content
and I believe Google just removed all
all those duplicates of Wikipedia
mirrors so when the crawler is browsing
the Wikipedia mirror on ipfs it's
effectively causing our gateways to load
content and put it in the cache even
though no one asked for this content and
it may be kinda triggered other content
that people actually cared about to be
garbage collected because it was like
older and stuff like that so it's like
an open question what's the value in
being crawled by those search indexes
and other automated tools and if should
we on IPF SEO should we disallow those
paths and there's a separate discussion
should all public gateways to the same
or is it something we'll live up to the
Gateway should it be a part of the spec
or is it like an individual decision of
gateway maintainer
we've run out of time but no but it was
called cool our thanks for being the
being here and the last last minute
items all right
so thanks for for being here and and see
you next week hopefully same time
right bye